BACKGROUNDS
 Failed Merchant is originally its own background but I decided to make it a guild artisan variant as the difference wasn't
  very big. I also changed a few words to be less casual and modern.
 The Legalese feature belonged to the plaintiff background from Acquisitions Incorporated, but that background is too specific
  to get its own section. The feature fits the courtier really well however, so I just put it there instead.
 Changed the sports on the athlete background slightly because the orignal has too many that are basically the same.
 Some of the backgrounds and their features have been edited to be more generic, as to be applicable to a wider variety of
  settings. If you're going for a specific setting such as Tyranny of Dragons or Ravnica, you're better off using those books.


CHARACTER CREATION
 The Ability score calculator is from Pathfinder 1st edition. Normal DnD 5e doesn't let you buy any score higher than 15, and
 some other things are different too


CLASSES
 Classes don't have both starting wealth and equipment in RAW. Instead you pick one.
 Draconic Bloodline Sorcerers don't normally get ancestries for the gem dragons, but I thought it was silly that they didn't
 so I added them.
 Skinwalkers and Abyssal Sorcerers are homebrew, as also noted in their description.
 Evocation wizards aren't supposed to be able to empower non-wizard spells but there is absolutely no way the change matters
  for the power level of a level 10 ability. Their abilities altering damage rolls in general were a little vague so I
  changed them to reflect the designer's RAI as stated online.
 Channel Divinity in RAW is 1 use > 2 uses at lv6 > 3 uses at lv18
 Wild Magic surge in RAW asks the DM to decide every time you cast a lv1+ sorcerer spell, and you regaining Tides of Chaos is
  also up to them. That is putting undue pressure on the DM, their decision should be whether to allow wild magic in their
  campaign at all.
 Old Gods Barbarian was overloaded. It used to also have expertise in Intimidation and the abilityt to heal using hit dice
  when it started raging. Those abilities felt unnecessary, so they were removed. The damage die for unarmed strikes
  and improvised weapons used to also be a flat d12, which was a little over the top.
 It made more sense to me for Light Clerics to have Judgement as a domain spell than Guardian of Faith so I changed it.
 Monks effectively have their damage dice shifted one level up from what they are in RAW 5e. This reflects the OneDnD version.


COMBAT
 I refer to unarmed strikes as weapon attacks as per the original printing of the PHB, as it makes more sense with how
 monster bodyparts such as fists are classified as weapons. I also keep them as simple melee weapons, as you are absolutely
 not born proficient as a fighter. This has an impact on a lot of abilites, some of which work with unarmed RAW and some of
 which don't, all of which I may or may not have changed as I noticed them for brevity's sake.
 Changed the wording on the damage rules so that the spells bit refers explicitly, rather than implicitly, to areas of effect.
  In RAW, Magic Missile (and possibly other spells that I haven't caught) becomes an asinine yu-gi-oh tier rulings
  abomination, where it works differently depending on your targets without saying as much in the spell description, and I am
  vehemently opposed to things like that in DnD.
 Crits normally do double damage dice instead of just double damage, see any copy of the PHB, but I prefer it this way. Bite
 me.
 Ignited and Soaked are homebrew conditions.
 in RAW the Invisible condition is meant to confer its bonuses even if you are seen. Needless to say that is stupid so you're
  welcome for this change.
 Exhaustion rules here are from OneDnD. The RAW 5e rules are very different and unnecessarily complicated.

 RAW bonus action spells are asinine and prevent you from even casting with your reaction that turn. I changed it so the
 spirit of the rule (preventing regular explosive turns) remains intact while making sure this "particularly swift" spell
 isn't just worse than an action spell by default.

 Creatures going through difficult terrain don't provoke opportunity attacks when entering other creatures' reach in RAW,
 but adding this rule adds a little more meaning to difficult terrain.


FEATS
 Gague Bloodlust and Controlled Killing Intent are homebrew feats based on anime memes
 Master of Familiars is kind of a homebrew feat based on the mascot ones from Strixhaven
 Polearm Master in RAW lets you make opportunity attacks against approaching creatures. As I made it baseline, I gave this
  feat the ability to ignore cover instead.
 Feats have overall have their exclusivity reduced, so more characters have access to them. This includes letting anyone
  meet the prerequisites for Eldritch Invocations via the Eldritch Adept Feat.


ITEMS
 The Reach property of a weapon doesn't let you make opportunity attacks against approaching creatures in RAW.
 Alchemist's fire usually works differently from the ignited condition but with such a rule in the game it'd be silly not to
 use it in an obvious case like this.
 Clothing, Jewelry, Magic Tattoos, Instruments, and Consumable are (for some reason) not categories in RAW. I added them for
 ease of searching, as well as to make a few wondrous items make more sense
 Hat of Vermin in RAW summons only bats, frogs, and rats.
 Helm of Teleportation is rare in RAW but that's insane for how powerful it is.
 Horn of Blasting in RAW deals fire damage when it explodes.


MONSTERS
 Changed from monstrosity to beast: (philosophy is if it aint got magic abilities or a divine lore origin, and acts like a
 beast, it's a beast)
  Amphisbaena
  Carrion Crawler
  Cave Fisher
  Death Dog
  Griffin
  Purple Worm
  Worg

 There is pretty much no dinosaur I haven't changed, and most of them are homebrews I added for a campaign that needed a full
  set of dinosaurian fauna.
 Then there is a huge number of beasts that I had to add because apparently it was more important to wizards that pickle rick
  got a statblock than turtles or hippos or swans

 Homebrew
  Crone
  Draug
  Stormwraith
  Valkyriae

 Monsters no longer come with a prepackaged average damage number because I hate it.

 Rakshasa in RAW is only vulnerable to piercing from magic weapons *wielded by good creatures*, and its claw attacks aren't
  magical


SPELLS
 A number of spells have had their names changed, mostly to avoid references to specific characters. I probably don't remember
 all of them, but here are most of them:
	Abi-Dalzim's Horrid Wilting = Horrid Wilting
	Aganazzar's Scorcher = Scorch
	Bigby's Hand = Archmage Hand
	Drawmij's Instant Summons = Instant Summons
	Evard's Black Tentacles = Grasping Tentacles
	Find Traps = Sense Traps
	Giant Insect = Giant Arthropod
	Jim's Magic Missile = Arcane Arrows
	Jim's Glowing Coin = Shiny Coin
	Leomund's Secret Chest = Secret Chest
	Leomund's Tiny Hut = Tiny Hut
	Maximilian's Earthen Grasp = Earthen Grasp
	Melf's Acid Arrow = Acid Arrow
	Melf's Minute Meteors = Minute Meteors
	Mordenkainen's Faithful Hound = Faithful Hound
	Mordenkainen's Magnificient Mansion = Magnificient Mansion
	Mordenkainen's Private Sanctum = Private Sanctum
	Mordenkainen's Sword = Force Sword
	Nystul's Magic Aura = Altered Aura
	Otiluke's Freezing Sphere = Freezing Sphere
	Otiluke's Resilient Sphere = Containment Sphere
	Otto's Irresistible Dance = Irresistible Dance
	Rary's Telepathic Bond = Telepathic Bond
	Snilloc's Snowball Swarm = Snowball Swarm
	Tasha's Caustic Brew = Caustic Brew
	Tasha's Hideous Laughter = Hideous Laughter
	Tenser's Floating Disk = Floating Disk
	Tenser's Transformation = Warrior Soul

 And these spells had their names changed either because of space concerns, or because of flavour reasons:
	Last Rites -> Judgement
	Summon The Thing with the Writhing Tail -> Summon Eldritch Cat
	Vanish to the Space Between Worlds -> Step Outside
	Banish to the Space Between Worlds -> Send Outside

 The sorcerer spell list has been changed fairly substantially, and other classes have been given some extra options as well.

 RAW True Strike only gives you the advantage. It is by far the worst spell in the game since it's worse in every way than
  just attacking. The reworked version was, for flavour reasons, taken away from warlocks and sorcerers, and given to clerics.
 The original 5e Raise dead doesn't inflict exhaustion, but since its penalties are identical to the effects of exhaustion in
  this ruleset, I changed it to do so.
 Acid Splash has had its damage dice increased from 1d6 to 1d8
 Disguise and Alter Form are slightly upgraded versions of the RAW spells Disguise Self and Alter Self. The new versions can
  target any willing creature, and be upcast.
 Booming Blade and Green-Flame Blade RAW have a range of 5ft, but I want them to work with spears and the like so I changed
  them.
 Feather Fall in RAW is only a reaction and not castable as a ritual. I added the 1 Action cast time and Ritual to make it a
  little easier to use, like in bg3
 Jump isn't castable as a ritual in RAW
 Darkvision in RAW is level 2, which is way too expensive for how uncompetitive it is
 Pyrotechnics in RAW only targets nonmagical fire but that is gimping a niche af and kind of weak level 2 spell for at best
  very dubious reasons.
 The RAW version of Corrosive Blast doesn't specify worn or carried, so it would include equipment, such as spear shafts,
  clothing, and spellbooks.
 Fetid Blade is an evocation spell in RAW, but it doesn't particularly fit the description of one, so I changed it to better
  match similar spells.
 Blight in RAW has a range of 30ft and the standard 1 extra damage die per upcast level. Which is pretty bad for a single target
  spell at its level. Judgement informed this upgraded version.

 These Spells from  Acquisitions Incorporated are supposed to have a royalty component, see that book for details.
  Gift of Gab
  Shiny Coin (see changed names above)
 
 These spells from the explorer's guide to wildemount aren't meant to be available to non-wizards, see that book for details
  Dark Star
  Fortune's Favor
  Gift of Alacrity
  Gravity Fissure
  Gravity Sinkhole
  Immovable Object
  Magnify Gravity
  Pulse Wave
  Ravenous Void
  Reality Break
  Sapping Sting
  Temporal Shunt
  Tether Essence
  Time Ravage
  Wristpocket

 Homebrew
  Fish
  Life Bolt
  Life Transference
  Arcane Arrows is a modified Jim's Magic Missile that removed the crit parts and the royalty component. see Acquisitions
   Incorporated for what the original spell looks like.

OTHER
 Lycanthropy rules for players are wholly homebrew, loosely based on Loup garou lycanthropy from Van Richten's Guide to
   Ravenloft 












